Social choice theory is the field that studies the cluster of individual preferences toward a collection choice.

Computational social choice is instead is used to assess the computational difficulty of determining the output
of a voting rule or of manipulating it.

Two main thrusts 1) apply computational paradigms and techniques to provide a better analysis of social choice mechanisms
and construct new ones

2) social choice theory to computational environments. Low stake environments allow designers to freely switch between choice
mechanisms and therefor they provide an ideal test bed for ideas coming from social choice theory.

how to best match people on a basis of their preferences and how to aggregate the beliefs
of several individuals.

Copeland method) most pair wise wins is declared winner similar to a round robin however
copeland can lead to ties and creates too much emphasis on the amount of pair wise victories
as opposed to their magnitude

Broda rule) each voter i ranks all candidates and each candidate recieves as many points
from a given voter as that voter ranks other candidates below her.

Consider 3 candidates and 11 voters

Four voters prefer candidates in order A->B->C, 3 prefer B->C->a
and 2 prefer B->A->C and C->A->B

B wins via pluarity rule with 5 points and by broda rule with
(4 * 1 + 3 * 2 + 2* 2 + 2 * 0 = 14 points)

However a majority of voters (namely 6 out of 11) prefer A over B

in this case A is the Condorcet winner.

If 2 more voters join to vote C->A->B then a majority prefers A over B and B over C
but now also a majority prefers C to A.

This is known as the condorect paradox leading to not always a clear election outcome.'

Arrows theoreom

Independent of irrelevent alternatives: simply if there are candidates ABC and A beats B 
then removing candidate C does not change such outcome

Unaminity: If everyone votes for A then A wins.

Someone is a dictator if whenever they stricty prefer one altnerative to another the society
always prefers it as well.

Ranged voting systems

Unknown lunatic, a large group sabotages every other candidate bar one.

Under range voting: Rather a system that optimizes overall hapiness or majority rule

Is condorect winner more important.

Arrows theoreom essentially shows that a dictator is prefelent in ranked voting 

First brought into computational concepts when studying kemenys rule